PETE LEPAGE: You can now create
your own custom HTML tags
and make re-usable web
components with Custom Elements
v1.
It's easier to send messages
between open windows or tabs
on the same origin with
the BroadcastChannel API.
Media experiences get
better on Android,
and Foreign Fetch is now
available as an origin trial.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 54.
Complex user interfaces often
require a large amount of HTML.
Most languages allow developers
to create their own components
built on top of
language primitives
to mitigate some
of this verbosity.
But until now, creating
reusable components on the web
has been difficult.
Custom Elements allow you to
create your own custom HTML
tags and define the
new element's API
and behavior in JavaScript.
The result?
A browser-native way
to build reusable,
interoperable web components.
Chrome 54 provides support
for the latest Custom Elements
v1 spec and will
continue to support
the v0 spec until enough
of you have moved to v1.
Check out our primer
on Custom Elements
to see how you can use it to
create reusable web components
for your site or application.
It's not uncommon
for desktop users
to have multiple windows or
tabs open simultaneously.
And some sites even
encourage this behavior,
such as web editors that open
documents in their own tab.
Communicating between these
tabs can be difficult.
The BroadcastChannel
is a new one-to-many
messaging API between windows,
tabs, iframes, web workers,
and service workers.
It allows scripts to create
established named channels
to send messages
between browsing
contexts of the same origin.
Media is an increasingly
important part
of the browsing experience.
In addition to a
user gesture, you
can now use
Element.requestFullScreen
to trigger full screen mode
after a screen orientation
change.
And it allows you to create
richer media experiences that
include rotate-to-fullscreen.
Imagine if a commonly used
origin like an API provider,
web font service,
or other service
had its ability to deploy
its own service worker.
Instead of always
going to the network,
the provider could implement
their own custom networking
logic and take advantage of
a single authoritative cache
instance for storing
its responses.
Now, thanks to Foreign Fetch,
which is available in Chrome 54
as an origin trial,
it's a reality.
Check out Jeffrey's post,
linked in the description below.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 54
for developers.
Check the description for
more details and links
to documentation
and specifications.
And don't forget to check
out the Chrome Dev Summit.
We'll be streaming it on
YouTube on November 11 and 10.
If you want to stay
up to date with Chrome
and know what's coming,
click that Subscribe button
up there or somewhere.
Anyways, I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
55 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]